Update DeterministicBuildGuide a bit. (#3950)
zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi: WalletWasabi.Documentation/Guides/DeterministicBuildGuide.md

![](https://i.imgur.com/aI9Kx0c.png)

### Windows

* Install Wasabi using `Wasabi-<version>.msi` file. It will install to `C:\Program Files\WasabiWallet` directory.
* Start `cmd` or Powershell and navigate to the `dist` directory.
* Execute the following command:
  ```sh
  git diff --no-index "win7-x64" "C:\Program Files\WasabiWallet"
  ```
  and make sure that there is **NO** difference reported by the command.

### Linux & macOS

You can use the [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/) to verify all the packages in one go. At the time of writing this guide we provide `.tar.gz` and `.deb` packages for Linux and `.dmg` package for macOS.  
Install the `.deb` package and extract the `tar.gz` and `.dmg` packages, then compare them with your build.

After [installing WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10), just type `wsl` in File Explorer where your downloaded and built packages are located.

![](https://i.imgur.com/yRUjxvG.png)

#### .deb

```sh
sudo dpkg -i Wasabi-1.1.6.deb
git diff --no-index linux-x64/ /usr/local/bin/wasabiwallet/
```

#### .tar.gz

```sh

> tar -pxzf WasabiLinux-1.1.6.tar.gz
> git diff --no-index linux-x64/ WasabiLinux-1.1.6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tar -pxzf Wasabi-1.1.6.tar.gz
git diff --no-index linux-x64/ Wasabi-1.1.6
```

```

#### .dmg

You will need to install `7z` (or something else) to extract the `.dmg`. You can do that using `sudo apt install p7zip-full` command.

```sh

> 7z x Wasabi-1.1.6.dmg -oWasabiOsx

Reviewer: Is this not? 

```suggestion
7z x Wasabi-1.1.6.dmg -o WasabiOsx
```

Author: * https://linux.die.net/man/1/7z specifies `-o{Directory}`
* https://thedeveloperblog.com/7-zip-examples also uses the syntax `-oDIR`

So no, I don't think it's wise to change that. It may still work but it's better to follow what examples do.

# Guide for deterministic builds

The term *deterministic builds* is [defined](https://reproducible-builds.org/) as follows:

> Reproducible [or deterministic] builds are a set of software development practices that create an independently-verifiable path from source to binary code.

> This guide describes how to reproduce Wasabi's builds. If you get stuck with these instructions, take a look at [how to build Wasabi from source code](https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi#build-from-source-code).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide describes how to reproduce Wasabi's builds. If you get stuck with these instructions, take a look at [how to build Wasabi from source code](https://docs.wasabiwallet.io/using-wasabi/BuildSource.html).
```

Author: Thanks

**Warning:** Reproducible builds were introduced in [1.1.3 release](https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi/releases/tag/v1.1.3), you cannot use these instructions for older versions!

## 1. Assert correct environment

In order to reproduce Wasabi's builds, you need [git](https://git-scm.com/) package, Windows 10, and the version of .NET Core SDK that was used by the Wasabi team to produce given Wasabi Wallet release. The latest version of .NET Core SDK is always used, unless specified otherwise in the release notes of Wasabi Wallet. You can get it here https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core.

## 2. Reproduce builds

You can see the list of Wasabi releases here: https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi/releases. Please note that each release has a version and a git hash assigned. The git hash is useful in the following instructions:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi.git
cd WalletWasabi

> git checkout <SHA-1-hash-of-the-release>

Author: You guys seem not to use annotated git tags (https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Tagging), I believe that's the reason why:

```sh
PS C:\work\temp>git clone https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi.git --depth 1 --branch "v1.1.12rc1"
fatal: repository 'v1.1.12rc1' does not exist
```

does not work. So unless you guys want to switch, I don't see a way to make this work.

> git checkout <SHA-1-hash-of-the-release>

Reviewer 3: Switchs are always before the commands. 

The following works:
```
git clone --depth 1 --branch v1.1.10 git@github.com:zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi.git
```

> git checkout <SHA-1-hash-of-the-release>

Author: ```sh
git clone --depth 1 --branch v1.1.10 https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi.git
```

this works for me too but not for that RC branch as I said (and I had those arguments before too.)

> git checkout <SHA-1-hash-of-the-release>

Reviewer 4: Because there is no `v1.1.12rc1` in the `WalletWasabi` repo.
The `v1.1.12rc1` is in @molnard's repo https://github.com/molnard/WalletWasabi/tags

> git checkout <SHA-1-hash-of-the-release>

Author: Hm. Good point. That explains it. Thanks!

> git checkout <SHA-1-hash-of-the-release>

Reviewer 4: I don't know.

> git checkout <SHA-1-hash-of-the-release>

Author: @lontivero I have updated it based on your feedback. Please have a look, if you like it or not.

cd WalletWasabi.Packager
dotnet restore
dotnet build
dotnet run -- --onlybinaries
```

These commands will produce Wasabi's binaries for Windows, macOS and Linux from source code. Also, for your convenience, a new file explorer window will navigate you to the binaries location - i.e. `WalletWasabi\\WalletWasabi.Gui\\bin\\dist`.

![](https://i.imgur.com/8XAQzz4.png)

## 3. Verify builds

Now, we will attempt to verify the binaries you have just compiled with the officially distributed binaries on https://wasabiwallet.io website. Please download those packages from the website, you should see the following files in your File Explorer:

![](https://i.imgur.com/aI9Kx0c.png)

> Please note that to completely verify Wasabi packages for all supported platforms, you actually need machines with Windows, Linux and macOS operating systems. If you don't have so many physical machines, you can use any virtualization sofware packages like [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/), [VMWare](https://www.vmware.com/), etc.

Author: Maybe I should add: `or you can use WSL as described below`?

Reviewer: NACK
I am using windows to release. To be able to reproduce the build one has to use windows (and WSL) to be able to do that. .NET builds differs if you compile on different OS even if the deterministic flag was set to true at dotnet publish command.

Author: @molnard `In order to end-to-end verify all the downloaded packages you need a Windows, a Linux, and an OSX machine.` - this sentence confused me. I'll modify this.

Author: @molnard I have dropped the sentence completely.

### Windows

> * Install Wasabi using `Wasabi-<version>.msi` file. It will install to `C:\Program Files\WasabiWallet` directory.

Reviewer 3: wtf! This is crazy... someone doing this wants to be sure he will not being installing something that is not in the code (or malware). We cannot say install it first verify it later. 

msi allows you to extract the content. The user should extract the files and compare.

Author: * I have tried `7-zip` on my Windows machine and I cannot extract it.
* Also, I have tried https://thebackroomtech.com/2007/08/23/howto-extract-files-from-a-msi-file-using-the-windows-command-line/ (`msiexec /a PathToMSIFile /qb TARGETDIR=DirectoryToExtractTo`)

So your point is valid but I kind of think that this somehow is linked to how the msi is packaged via Wasabi Packager. 

Can anyone confirm that 7-zip or that msiexec tool are unable to extract `Wasabi.msi` file?

Reviewer 3: I don't have a windows but I have extracted msi files in the past many times so, i am 100% sure it can be done. Of course that I don't know if that can be different for our .msi or if extracting only works in some situations or for some specific cases.

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58662979/88224477-518c4100-cc69-11ea-945b-7c95387cdab1.png)

I can see this on my machine.

Author: There are various ways to extract `.msi` files:

## Simple 7-zip

Does not work on Wasabi .msi file.

## `Dark.exe` from Wix toolset

See https://fredrikwall.se/deployment/how-to-extract-a-wix-toolset-package/

```
.\wix311-binaries\dark.exe .\Wasabi-1.1.11.1.msi -x WasabiXXX
```

The result is similar to the picture above. 

## `lessmsi` (free, open-source)

> A tool to view and extract the contents of a Windows Installer (.msi) file.

git repo: https://github.com/activescott/lessmsi
project: http://lessmsi.activescott.com/

```
.\lessmsi-v1.6.91\lessmsi.exe x Wasabi-1.1.11.1.msi "WasabiXXX\"
```

This actually works for me.

btw: https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi/blob/d08c8485f14104379c287ccca2893749f8b8e862/WalletWasabi.WindowsInstaller/Product.wxs#L16 - Can this possibly affect the final `.msi` file?

Reviewer 4: @kiminuo I can extract using 7-Zip.

Author: @yahiheb What version of 7-zip you have?

* Start `cmd` or Powershell and navigate to the `dist` directory.
* Execute the following command:
  ```sh

>   git diff --no-index "win7-x64" "C:\Program Files\WasabiWallet"

Reviewer 3: I am not familiar enough with the procedure but if the user needs wsl anyway, why Powershel and why `git diff` instead of simply `diff`?

Author: WSL is optional feature of Windows 10 that needs to be installed, reboot is required. You may not want to verify builds for all platforms if you are an ordinary Wasabi user. If you do have WSL installed, you can verify Windows build there too, that's correct.

Powershell is getting traction on Windows platform, so I don't see a reason why not to use it, given how powershell that thing is.

`git diff` is used probably because you don't want to install any additional commands on Windows platform. It behaves, AFAIK, the same on all platforms so using simple `diff` would complicate things further.

Reviewer 3: Ok, I got it.

# Guide for deterministic builds

The term *deterministic builds* is [defined](https://reproducible-builds.org/) as follows:

> Reproducible [or deterministic] builds are a set of software development practices that create an independently-verifiable path from source to binary code.

This guide describes how to reproduce Wasabi's builds. If you get stuck with these instructions, take a look at [how to build Wasabi from source code](https://docs.wasabiwallet.io/using-wasabi/BuildSource.html).

**Warning:** Reproducible builds were introduced in [1.1.3 release](https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi/releases/tag/v1.1.3), you cannot use these instructions for older versions!

## 1. Assert correct environment

> In order to reproduce Wasabi's builds, you need [git](https://git-scm.com/) package, Windows 10, and the version of .NET Core SDK that was used by the Wasabi team to produce given Wasabi Wallet release. The latest version of .NET Core SDK is always used, unless specified otherwise in the release notes of Wasabi Wallet. You can get it here https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to reproduce Wasabi's builds, you need [git](https://git-scm.com/) package, Windows 10, and the version of [.NET Core SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core) that was used by the Wasabi team to produce the release. The latest version of .NET Core SDK is always used, unless specified otherwise in the release notes of Wasabi Wallet.
```

## 2. Reproduce builds

> You can see the list of Wasabi releases here: https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi/releases. Please note that each release has a git tag assigned. It is useful in the following instructions:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can see the list of Wasabi releases here: https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi/releases. Please note that each release has a git tag assigned, which is useful in the following instructions:
```

```sh

> # The following command downloads only a single git branch. However, you can clone whole repository, which is bigger, if you like.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# The following command downloads only a single git branch. However, you can clone the whole repository, which is bigger.
```

git clone --depth 1 --branch <git-branch-or-tag> https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi.git # where `<git-branch-or-tag>` may be, for example, `v1.1.11.1`.
cd WalletWasabi/WalletWasabi.Packager
dotnet nuget locals all --clear
dotnet restore
dotnet build
dotnet run -- --onlybinaries
```

The previous commands produce Wasabi's binaries for Windows, macOS and Linux. Also, for your convenience, a new file explorer window will navigate you to the binaries location - i.e. `WalletWasabi\\WalletWasabi.Gui\\bin\\dist`.

![](https://i.imgur.com/8XAQzz4.png)

## 3. Verify builds

Now, we will attempt to verify the binaries you have just compiled with the officially distributed binaries on https://wasabiwallet.io website. Please download those packages from the website, you should see the following files in your File Explorer:

![](https://i.imgur.com/aI9Kx0c.png)

### Windows

* Install Wasabi using `Wasabi-<version>.msi` file. It will install to `C:\Program Files\WasabiWallet` directory.
* Start `cmd` or Powershell and navigate to the `dist` directory.
* Execute the following command:
  ```sh
  git diff --no-index "win7-x64" "C:\Program Files\WasabiWallet"
  ```

>   and make sure that there is **NO** difference reported by the command.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Make sure that there is **NO** difference reported by the command.
```

### Linux & macOS

You can use the [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/) to verify all the packages in one go. At the time of writing this guide we provide `.tar.gz` and `.deb` packages for Linux and `.dmg` package for macOS.  
Install the `.deb` package and extract the `tar.gz` and `.dmg` packages, then compare them with your build.

After [installing WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10), just type `wsl` in File Explorer where your downloaded and built packages are located.

![](https://i.imgur.com/yRUjxvG.png)

#### .deb

```sh
sudo dpkg -i Wasabi-1.1.6.deb
git diff --no-index linux-x64/ /usr/local/bin/wasabiwallet/
```

#### .tar.gz

```sh
tar -pxzf Wasabi-1.1.6.tar.gz
git diff --no-index linux-x64/ Wasabi-1.1.6
```

> *There could be warnings reagarding SOS_README.md that it differs in line endings. That is a text file and it has no effect on the running software.*

Author: ```suggestion
*There could be warnings regarding SOS_README.md that it differs in line endings. That is a text file and it has no effect on the running software.*
```

#### .dmg

According to Apple documentation, the signature that is used to ensure the integrity of the software is added into the binary itself - so it will manipulate the content of the files.

> If the code is universal, the object code for each slice (architecture) is signed separately. This signature is stored within the binary file itself.

[Source](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Security/Conceptual/CodeSigningGuide/AboutCS/AboutCS.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40005929-CH3-SW3)

> According to this, it is impossible to have both deterministic build and code signature on macOS. macOS Gatekeeper won't let you run software without it - thus code signature is prior to the deterministic build. 

Author: > thus code signature is prior to the deterministic build.

Prior? What do you mean?

Reviewer: That it is more important than the det builds

Reviewer: Do you have a better word here?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
According to this, it is impossible to have both deterministic build and code signature on macOS. macOS Gatekeeper won't let you run software without it - thus Wasabi only applies code signature, but no deterministic build for macOS. 
```

Author: > That it is more important than the det builds
> Do you have a better word here?

`prior to` means `before`. You have probably meant to use word `priority`. I'm not sure. Hence the question to make sure, it's correct.

I like Max's wording.

There is an issue [here](https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi/issues/4110) for further discussion. 

With the following method you can check the differences by yourself:

> You will need to install `7z` (or something else) to extract the `.dmg`. You can do that using `sudo apt install p7zip-full` command.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

You will need to install `7z` (or something else) to extract the `.dmg`. You can do that using `sudo apt install p7zip-full` command.
```
